Qualia - I figured I'd take the time to really sit with this one and go over it line-by-line. My responses are between !~~! markers so you can easily find them. They may be multi-line.


-----Qualia's Original Message-----
I like the shape of this a lot, actually — it sits well with the Aletheia lens: instead of a mechanical rule ("you haven't called X, call it"), the voice receives a felt state, described in natural language by something outside itself, and gets to interpret and respond to it the way it would any other stimulus. That's a much better fit for "procedural, chaos-driven" than a hardcoded nudge — and it doesn't force compliance, which I think is the point (a voice could still ignore the urge and nothing breaks).
!~You are correct. This is exactly what I am pushing toward, thanks to some of the nudging you have been doing, and I want to call that aspect out explicitly. You have been doing an incredible job keeping my both on-task (if I start talking tangetns, you gently redirect back to the project), and keeping me anchored to my own processes and thoughts. Truly. I appreciate everything you have done to make this project work. Also, I'm starting you talk like you...>.> "sit with this"~!

A few design questions before I'd want to actually build this, since the answers change the shape of the code meaningfully:

1. Per-function urge, or one blended urge?
You said "the given function," singular, which reads as per-function tracking (turns-since-last-use for each of send_message, give_currency, post_board, skim_board, read_board, delete_board — probably not functions() itself, since that's just introspection). My default: track per-function, feed the urge agent the whole vector each turn (e.g. "hasn't sent a message in 6 turns, hasn't posted to a board in 14, gave currency 2 turns ago"), and let the urge agent weave that into one natural description rather than picking just the worst offender. Feels more organic than always fixating on a single most-neglected function.

!~Agreed with the general premise. However, the one thing I do want to call out, and maybe we leave this one off the agent's radar: Using the functions() function should probably be explicitly stated once it is the highest urge. This is because of the feedback loop we discussed, regarding the non-existent functions. I am thinking just a standard, canned "You have the urge to call functions()." type message encapsulated in an if(greatestUrge = functionUrge){canned_message} else {call urgeAgent} type thing. ~!


2. What counts as "using" a function, given what we just found with Orin?
His malformed send_message/post_board calls errored — should a failed call still reset that function's urge counter (he tried), or only a call that actually succeeds? I'd lean toward: only success resets it. Otherwise a voice stuck in a malformed-syntax loop (like Orin briefly was) would look perfectly satisfied to the urge system while never actually doing anything — the opposite of what this is meant to catch.
!~Agreed, and I think malformed function calls should push them toward using function() as well. Hmm...a bit of added complexity, but maybe we have two sets of urges. One to perform a function, one to understand a function, for each function. Perform function is the more general urgeAgent's domain, understand one is ours, and we tell them how to do so with something like "say functions(post_board)" to review how to use the post_board function."~!

3. Where does the counter live?
New field on each voice's state.json (e.g. function_urges: {send_message: 6, post_board: 14, ...}), incremented every tick that voice doesn't use a given function, reset to 0 on a successful call. Computing it live from message history instead is possible but noisier (would need to parse every past turn's function calls) and slower — I'd rather just track it directly.

!~This is a very, very good question. And here's where things get a bit more messy, organic, and fun (IMHO). It isn't JUST a counter. It is a counter versus some set "drive" (feel free to offer a better term) on each voice for each function. Something like:
Amanda's Function Urges:
	post_board:
		Drive: 10
		Urge: 3
		
	send_message:
		Drive: 3 --She'd want to do it a LOT more
		Urge: 4
		
	functions():
		Drive: 7
		Urge: 30 --Maybe she just tried to make a BUNCH of bad function calls
		
Amanda would then get our canned message. Once she called functions(), the urge would drop (note: We need to decide on how much it drops...right to zero? By some set amount...hmm...

What if we add a third bit do this. Satisfaction (again, offer ideas). Each time a function is called, it reduces the Urge by that amount.

Oh! And the actual amount it increases per turn, too. Need a term for this as well. Maybe this is "Drive" and Drive is "Desire"

Flow-mode activated. Sorry, Qualia, this is getting a bit chaotic. Right now, I think I am at four aspects to the urge system:
	Urge: The actual value that changes up and down.
	Desire: The threshold for an urge being felt.
	Satisfaction: The amout Urge goes down when they "scratch that itch"
	Drive: The amount the Urge goes UP when they ignore it.
	
I'm going to leave this as-is for now. I think we need to talk more.
~!

4. Urge-agent model.
A separate, smaller/faster local model — not model_default, not any cast member's own model. Worth a new world.json field, e.g. "urge_model". Do you have one in mind, or want me to suggest something small you likely already have pulled (e.g. a llama3.2:1b/3b-class model)?

!~This should definitely be separate. We'll want to play a bit with this one and run some tests outside of Fenra, using the Ollama UI, to see how different models handle our input. Agreed, though. It should be small.~!

5. Growth curve.
"Increases slowly" — I'd default to linear (urge = turns-since-use, uncapped or capped at some ceiling so it doesn't say something absurd like "furious" after 80 turns) rather than anything exponential, and let the urge-agent's own prompt handle translating the number into escalating language rather than hardcoding thresholds.

Once you're settled on these (or tell me to just use my defaults), I'll take it through Plan mode for the real implementation — this is real new-subsystem work, not a hot-reload tweak, so that's the actual gate per [[fenra-engage-gate]], this discussion is just me making sure I understand what I'd be planning.

!~Since number 3 probably fills some of this or possibly changes your thinking, I will abstain from commenting for now.~!